Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address (on Nov.19,1863)
林肯葛底斯堡演讲词

Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
八十七年以前，我们的先辈们在这个大陆上创立了一个新国家，它孕育于自由之中，奉行一切人生来平等的原则。

八十七年前，我们的先辈们在这个大陆上建立了一个以自由为理想、以人人平等为宗旨的新国家。

Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. 
现在我们正从事一场伟大的内战，以考验这个国家，或者说以考验任何一个孕育于自由而奉行上述原则的国家是否能够长久存在下去。

现在我们正进行一场大内战，考验这个国家或任何一个主张自由平等的国家，能否长久存在。

We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.
我们在这场战争中的一个伟大战场上集合。烈士们为使这个国家能够生存下去而献出了自己的生命，我们在此集会是为了把这个战场的一部分奉献给他们作为最后安息之所。我们这样做是完全应该而且非常恰当的。

我们在这场战争中的一个大战场上集会，来把战场的一角献给为国家生存而牺牲的烈士，作为他们永久安息之地，这是我们义不容辞、理所当然该做的事。


But, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate--we cannot consecrate--we cannot hallow--this ground. 
但是，从更广泛的意义上来说，这块土地我们不能够奉献，我们不能够圣化，我们不能够神化。

但是，从更深刻的意义来说，我们不能使这一角战场成为圣地，我们不能使它流芳百世，我们不能使它永垂青史。


The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. 
曾经在这里战斗过的勇士们，活着的和去世的，已经把这块土地神圣化了，这远不是我们微薄的力量所能增减的。

因为在这里战斗过的勇士们，活着的和死去的，已经使这一角战场神圣化了，我们微薄的力量远远不能使它增光，或者使之减色。


The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. 
全世界将很少注意到，也不会长期地记起我们今天在这里所说的话，但全世界永远不会忘记勇士们在这里做过的事。

世人不太会注意、也不会长久记住我们在这里说的话，但是永远不会忘记他们在这里做的事。

It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us--that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion--that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain--that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom--and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.
勿宁说，倒是我们这些还活着的人，应该在这里把自己奉献于勇士们已经如此崇高地向前推进但尚未完成的事业。倒是我们应该在这里把自己奉献于仍然留在我们面前的伟大任务，以便使我们从这些光荣的死者身上汲取更多的奉献精神，来完成他们已经完全彻底为之献身的事业；以便使我们在这里下定最大的决心，不让这些死者们白白牺牲；以便使国家在上帝福佑下得到自由的新生，并且使这个民有、民治、民享的政府永世长存。

因此，我们活着的人更应该献身于他们为之战斗并且使之前进的未竟事业。我们更应该献身于是我们面前的伟大任务，更应该不断向这些光荣牺牲的烈士学习，学习他们为事业鞠躬尽瘁、死而后已的献身精神，更应该在这里下定决心，一定不让这些烈士的鲜血白流；这个国家在上帝的保佑下，一定要得到自由和新生，这个民有、民治、民享的政府一定不能从地球上消失。
